---
url: https://eu.usatoday.com/story/money/personalfinance/real-estate/2021/08/09/remote-work-incentives-expand-smaller-cities-try-attract-talent/5478847001/
title: Remote work incentives expand as smaller cities try to attract talent
domain: eu.usatoday.com
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:50:22.897428
word_count: 2029
paywall: False
cleaned_at: 2026-03-01T14:19:12.375913
cleaned_by: llm
quality_score: 8
---

url: https://eu.usatoday.com/story/money/personalfinance/real-estate/2021/08/09/remote-work-incentives-expand-smaller-cities-try-attract-talent/5478847001/
title: Remote work incentives expand as smaller cities try to attract talent
domain: eu.usatoday.com
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:50:22.897428
word_count: 2029
paywall: False
---

# Remote work incentives expand as smaller cities try to attract talent






---

Move here, get paid: Small towns offer up to $20K just to get you to live there, work remotely

Paul Davidson

| USA TODAY

Show Caption

Hide Caption

How to get paid to work remotely in small cities, towns

At least 45 towns and communities are offering money and other incentives to get remote workers to move there.

Andrea Kramar, USA TODAY


Shanelle Sherlin was living in limbo last year after she gave up her apartment in Los Angeles and moved to her parents’ house in Vail, Colorado, where she worked remotely at the height of the pandemic.

So when the 30-year-old social media strategist heard that a nonprofit in northwest Arkansas was offering $10,000 – and a mountain bike! – to qualified out-of-towners to relocate to the area to work remotely, she quickly applied.

Last week, she moved into a 3,400-square-foot, four-bedroom house in the Ozark Mountains that she bought for $405,000, where she hopes to fulfill her real estate investment dreams by living upstairs and renting out the lower floor. A comparable setup in a Los Angeles neighborhood would have been out of reach at a cost of up to $2 million.

► Can I be a day trading millionaire?

Cryptocurrency FOMO pushes young investors to leave jobs and day trade, but it comes with risks

►When showering is stressful:

Climate change shapes where Americans relocate

“It’s just not feasible to really buy something” in LA, says Sherlin, a hiking and biking enthusiast. “I’m so excited.”

Northwest Arkansas is among a growing crop of cities, states and regions offering as much as $20,000 to entice newly remote workers to move to their areas. Some, like the Ozarks, are trying to create a pool of high-skilled workers to help fill job openings. Others aim to build up a skilled workforce to attract companies. Still, others are combating longstanding population declines or are looking to fill new housing complexes.

The efforts are turning the traditional building blocks of economic development upside down.

Typically, cities have spent hundreds of millions of dollars offering tax breaks and other incentives to lure companies.

►Selling out fast:

Foreign buyers may add to housing woes, prices

► These places will pay you to move there:

From cold, hard cash to free sandwiches, here are some incentives for remote workers to move to other communities

The handful of cities with the largest clusters of innovative companies – such as San Francisco, Seattle, San Jose, Washington, D.C., and Boston – have attracted the most workers,  helping them draw still more businesses. Smaller towns that lacked vibrant ecosystems of employers and workers were left with shrinking tax bases that further deepened their struggles.

The pandemic has shaken up the formula by severing the ties between where a person lives and works. As a result, smaller communities with lower costs of living, less congestion and, at least by some measures, a better quality of life are aggressively courting remote workers.

The employees can then help draw leading-edge manufacturers and startups, and spend money in town, bolstering the local economy and expanding the tax base.

“We’re breaking the cycle,” says Adam Ozimek, chief economist of Upwork, an online freelancing platform. Cities “can appeal directly to people instead of the companies who employ them.”

Remote work sparks more offers


Forty-seven percent of company leaders surveyed by research firm Gartner last year said they planned to allow employees to continue working remotely.

At least 45 communities across the country are offering incentives to attract remote workers, up from a couple dozen late last year, according to

MakeMyMove.com

, a website that aggregates the offers. In addition to northwest Arkansas, areas such as southwest Michigan and Morgantown, West Virginia, have joined older, pre-pandemic programs in Tulsa, Oklahoma; Vermont; and Nebraska.

Evan Hock, a vice president of TMap, a recruiting firm that runs the website, expects an additional 50 or so communities to join the fray within a year. Already, several thousand people have picked up stakes and  quickly moved to new cities to take advantage of the offers, Hock estimates.

While that may not sound like much, program coordinators say they’re generating publicity that will stoke a