---
url: https://www.wired.com/story/remote-work-labor-organizing/
title: Remote Workers of the World, Unite! | WIRED
domain: wired.com
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:31:39.142648
word_count: 1164
paywall: True
cleaned_at: 2026-03-01T14:18:59.531219
cleaned_by: llm
quality_score: 8
---

title: Remote Workers of the World, Unite! | WIRED
domain: wired.com
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:31:39.142648
word_count: 1164
paywall: True
---

# Remote Workers of the World, Unite! | WIRED






---

Save Story

Save this story

Save Story

Save this story

The masses who

settled in to

remote or hybrid

work during the

pandemic




hurt


The pandemic revealed


But those benefits are eroding. Meetings that should've been emails are becoming endless Zoom calls. A friend was asked to attend an unpaid, hour-long tech-prep session for giving a remote guest lecture; previously this would've required a mere 10 minutes of faffing around before her appearance. Emerging norms for video calls demand you stay in your seat at all times, negating the benefits of being close enough to your kitchen to get a cup of coffee.



While a lot of executives are resisting the push to make remote work the norm, it's worth remembering that if they lose this battle, they

will

turn to these surveillance tools and their inevitably nastier descendants to reclaim whatever power they think they're losing.

The pandemic and remote work turbocharged techno-solutionism, leaving us with the impression that Zoom alone could allow us to claw back everything the ever-expanding demands of the office had been stealing from us. Unfortunately, outsmarting capitalism requires something more than one weird trick that bosses hate. We have to stop believing that technology, in and of itself, will emancipate us, and instead embrace our collective power to shape how technology is used. That requires organizing.

Remote and hybrid

workers can start by ensuring that when they settle into new communities, they're not bringing social problems along for the ride. Already, cities around the world are groaning under the weight of self-styled “

digital nomads

” migrating with