---
url: https://fritz.ai/nooscope/
title: The Nooscope Manifested - Fritz ai
domain: fritz.ai
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:15:12.989524
word_count: 10775
paywall: False
cleaned_at: 2026-03-01T14:19:15.963888
cleaned_by: llm
quality_score: 8
---

url: https://fritz.ai/nooscope/
title: The Nooscope Manifested - Fritz ai
domain: fritz.ai
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:15:12.989524
word_count: 10775
paywall: False
---

# The Nooscope Manifested - Fritz ai






---

AI as Instrument of Knowledge Extractivism

By Vladan Joler and Matteo Pasquinelli

(2020)

1. Some enlightenment regarding the project to mechanise reason.

The Nooscope is a cartography of the limits of artificial intelligence, intended as a provocation to both computer science and the humanities. Any map is a partial perspective, a way to provoke debate. Similarly, this map is a manifesto — of AI dissidents. Its main purpose is to challenge the mystifications of artificial intelligence. First, as a technical definition of

intelligence

and, second, as a political form that would be

autonomous

from society and the human.

1

In the expression ‘artificial intelligence’ the adjective ‘artificial’ carries the myth of the technology’s autonomy: it hints to caricatural ‘alien minds’ that self-reproduce in silico but, actually, mystifies two processes of proper alienation: the growing geopolitical autonomy of hi-tech companies and the invisibilization of workers’ autonomy worldwide. The modern project to mechanise human reason has clearly mutated, in the 21

st

century, into a corporate regime of knowledge extractivism and epistemic colonialism.

2

This is unsurprising, since machine learning algorithms are the most powerful algorithms for information compression.

The purpose of the Nooscope map is to secularize AI from the ideological status of ‘intelligent machine’ to one of knowledge instrument. Rather than evoking legends of alien cognition, it is more reasonable to consider machine learning as an

instrument of knowledge magnification

that helps to perceive features, patterns, and correlations through vast spaces of data beyond human reach. In the history of science and technology, this is no news: it has already been pursued by optical instruments throughout the histories of astronomy and medicine.

3

In the tradition of science, machine learning is just a

Nooscope

, an instrument to see and navigate the space of knowledge (from the Greek

skopein

‘to examine, look’ and

noos

‘knowledge’).

Borrowing the idea from Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, the Nooscope diagram applies the analogy of optical media to the structure of all machine learning apparatuses. Discussing the power of his

calculus ratiocinator

and ‘characteristic numbers’ (the idea to design a numerical universal language to codify and solve all the problems of human reasoning), Leibniz made an analogy with instruments of visual magnification such as the microscope and telescope. He wrote: ‘Once the characteristic numbers are established for most concepts, mankind will then possess a new instrument which will enhance the capabilities of the mind to a far greater extent than optical instruments strengthen the eyes, and will supersede the microscope and telescope to the same extent that reason is superior to eyesight.’

4

Although the purpose of this text is not to reiterate the opposition between quantitative and qualitative cultures, Leibniz’s credo need not be followed. Controversies cannot be conclusively computed. Machine learning is not the ultimate form of intelligence.

Instruments of measurement and perception always come with inbuilt aberrations. In the same way that the lenses of microscopes and telescopes are never perfectly curvilinear and smooth, the

logical lenses

of machine learning embody faults and biases. To understand machine learning and register its impact on society is to study the degree by which social data are diffracted and distorted by these lenses. This is generally known as the debate on bias in AI, but the political implications of the logical form of machine learning are deeper. Machine learning is not bringing a new dark age but one of diffracted rationality, in which, as it will be shown, an episteme of causation is replaced by one of automated correlations. More in general, AI is a new regime of truth, scientific proof, social normativity and rationality, which often does take the shape of a

statistical hallucination

. This diagram manifesto is another way to say that AI, the king of computation (patriarchal fantasy of mechanised knowledge, ‘master algorithm’ and

alpha machine

) is naked. Here, we are peeping into its black box.

On the the invention of metaphors as instrument of knowledge magnification.Emanuele Tesauro, Il canocchiale aristotelico [The Aristotelian Telescope], frontispiece of the 1670 edition, Turin.

2. The assembly line of machine learning: Data, Algorithm, Model.

The history of AI is a history of experiments, machine failures, academic controversies, epic rivalries around military funding, popularly known as ‘winters of AI.’

5

Although corporate AI today describes its power with the language of ‘black magic’ and ‘superhuman cognition’, curre