---
url: https://www.curbed.com/2023/03/twitter-is-dumping-most-of-its-new-york-office.html
title: Twitter Is Dumping Most of Its New York Office
domain: curbed.com
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:45:12.640524
word_count: 315
paywall: True
cleaned_at: 2026-03-01T14:18:20.545862
cleaned_by: llm
quality_score: 8
---

url: https://www.curbed.com/2023/03/twitter-is-dumping-most-of-its-new-york-office.html
title: Twitter Is Dumping Most of Its New York Office
domain: curbed.com
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:45:12.640524
word_count: 315
paywall: True
---

# Twitter Is Dumping Most of Its New York Office






---

The exterior of Twitter’s office on 17th Street, where it’s now looking to sublease 200,000 square feet.

Photo: Angela Weiss/AFP via Getty Images

Elon Musk hates remote work so much that he has

threatened to fire

Tesla execs over it and encouraged employees to actually

sleep in the office

. But this belief is at odds with his other management strategy — making as much money as possible off of Twitter’s assets. (Remember the fire sale of its

office furniture

?) This urge to make money wherever possible may be dictating his decision to sublease a portion of Twitter’s New York office — a once-sprawling ode to millennial culture that

included

potted succulents, rosé on tap, and churro waffles in a free cafeteria.

That office is on 17th Street across two buildings between 7th and 8th Avenues — 245 and 249 — and Bloomberg

reports

that the company is seeking to sublease 200,000 square feet of it, according to the brokerage Savills, which didn’t return a request for comment. (Neither did Twitter, which

got rid of its press office

.)

Twitter only had 215,000 square feet of space to begin with. And it was already subleasing 11,000 square feet to

Lyft


fired

all of the janitors two months ago.

Related

Elon Musk Is Over Remote Work

Elon Musk Is Selling Off Twitter’s Cafeteria

A Brief History of Elon Musk’s Master Plans

Listening In Outside Twitter’s New York Office

Tags:

twitter

elon musk

chelsea

commercial real estate crisis

tech offices

More

Show

Comment

Twitter Is Dumping Most of Its New York Office

Your product is saved! You’ll receive emails when your saved products go on sale.

Manage preferences.