---
url: https://jacobin.com/2023/04/32-hour-workweek-productivity-gains-bernie-sanders-karl-marx-working-class
title: A 32-Hour Workweek Is Long Overdue
domain: jacobin.com
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:34:20.596471
word_count: 1419
paywall: True
cleaned_at: 2026-03-01T14:19:06.210528
cleaned_by: llm
quality_score: 8
---

url: https://jacobin.com/2023/04/32-hour-workweek-productivity-gains-bernie-sanders-karl-marx-working-class
title: A 32-Hour Workweek Is Long Overdue
domain: jacobin.com
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:34:20.596471
word_count: 1419
paywall: True
---

# A 32-Hour Workweek Is Long Overdue






---

Jacobin

‘s special spring issue, “Teen Jacobin,” is out soon.

Follow this link to get a discounted subscription to our beautiful print quarterly.

What Zohran Can Learn From the Sewer Socialists

Chris Maisano

When the Leaning Tower Leaned Left

David Broder

No War but Artisanal Doughnut War

Amber A’Lee Frost


Ryan Cooper



— Bernie Sanders (@SenSanders)

April 13, 2023

Critics argue that it’s fine if technological advances deliver the shorter workweek without government intervention, but that “top-down” interference in the free market is a bad idea. This idea doesn’t stand up to even cursory scrutiny. If the reduction in hours was going to happen without being mandated, it would have happened long ago.

Bernie is right. If we want increased productivity to benefit the working class, we need to take political action to make that happen.

Top-Down or Bottom-Up, Someone Better Mandate It

The idea is slowly gaining traction. Last year, a

state-level version


Right now, these efforts face an uphill battle to say the least. The California bill stalled out in 2022, though it

could be amended and reintroduced

this year. The federal attempt is going to be strangled in the crib as a matter of course. It was introduced in the House Education and Workforce Committee, whose chair, Republican representative Virginia Foxx of North Carolina, has

said

that “blanket federal regulations often cause more harm than good” because they don’t account for the “unique needs” of various groups, and that “Main Street America” doesn’t need “more top-down federal mandates.”

When the California version was proposed last year,

Reason

magazine’s Scott Shackford

made

similar complaints:



In fact, Shackford treats as insidious the provision in the California proposal that would exempt companies that have collective-bargaining agreements with their unions. He equates this with extortion to accept unionization. “It would be a shame if something happened to your company’s business model.”


the fact that it’s a mandate

.

Shackford’s claim that he’d be fine with a shorter workweek if it resulted “inevitably” from technological advances willfully misses the point. We know perfectly well that it won’t happen that way. There was a

299 percent increase