---
url: https://www.forbes.com/sites/danpontefract/2023/03/25/corporate-nonsense-continues-to-harm-productivity-and-corporate-culture/
title: Corporate Nonsense Continues To Harm Productivity And Corporate Culture
domain: forbes.com
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:37:31.562960
word_count: 1081
paywall: True
cleaned_at: 2026-03-01T14:18:56.972564
cleaned_by: llm
quality_score: 8
---

url: https://www.forbes.com/sites/danpontefract/2023/03/25/corporate-nonsense-continues-to-harm-productivity-and-corporate-culture/
title: Corporate Nonsense Continues To Harm Productivity And Corporate Culture
domain: forbes.com
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:37:31.562960
word_count: 1081
paywall: True
---

# Corporate Nonsense Continues To Harm Productivity And Corporate Culture






---

Leadership

Leadership Strategies

Corporate Nonsense Continues To Harm Productivity And Corporate Culture

By

Dan Pontefract

,

Contributor.

Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights.

Leadership Strategist Dan Pontefract covers leadership and culture.

Follow Author

Mar 25, 2023, 01:50pm EDT

This article is more than

2

years old.

Getty

getty

Productivity has seemingly become the buzzword of the 21

st

century. However, I don’t think that discussions around productivity adequately address what’s really happening. Leading strategist, thinker, and author Martin Lindstrom calls the barrier “corporate nonsense,” and I agree wholeheartedly.

Martin points out that email culture is a prevalent example of “corporate nonsense." It continues to be widespread globally and a leading indicator of how productivity wanes. For instance, Martin worked with a financial institution where, on average, employees received 800 emails every day. “If you do the math and you spend just one minute per email, that’s your entire workday, and you haven’t even done your work yet,” he explained.

Bite-sized Pieces of Common Sense

Martin’s firm –

Lindstrom Company

– is a global business and culture transformation firm that was once hired by a firm to increase productivity while also improving company culture. His solution to the flood of emails that ran rampant across the firm and negatively impacted productivity, let alone culture? Ban the CC button.

A month-long trial revealed that simply banning the CC button cut the total number of emails received by everyone in half. Only Martin was unsurprised by these outcomes. “There’s a direct relationship between the number of emails you send and the number of emails you receive,” he said.

Martin refers to solutions like these as a “bite-sized piece of common sense"—the antidote to corporate nonsense.

“We introduced the

Ministry of Common Sense

(one of Martin’s books) with the sheer purpose of finding all these stupidities going on and, one by one, flicking them off.”

MORE FROM

FORBES ADVISOR

Best Travel Insurance Companies

By

Amy Danise

Editor

Best Covid-19 Travel Insurance Plans

By

Amy Danise

Editor

His method starts with finding all the "BS" going on inside the organization. He then uses simple, common-sense solutions to clean up the existing "BS." It could be removing the time-consuming but low-reward tasks like everyone’s favorite, “The meeting that was booked in order to prepare for the other meeting that will discuss what will happen in the real meeting.”

Many people experience this form of corporate nonsense on a daily basis. I’ve also had my fair share of these meetings over the years. They feel as pointless as a hockey game without a puck.

Personal Time


Martin recommends starting with timesheets to record how you are spending your day and your overall use of time. This will help you to notice where you are wasting time. You’ll also be able to identify where you are spending your energy with minimal reward.

Once you can get off the hamster wheel and free up some time, you can look ahead five or ten weeks, or even years, into the future.

Search for Purpose

Martin raised an interesting point during our interview concerning the younger generations’ search for purpose. He believes they will never be engaged in their work if they continue to be stuck on the hamster wheel of responding to emails and getting dragged into meetings without any usefulness.

These time-sucking tasks get in the way of the fulfilling aspects of the job, like connecting with customers or furthering the mission. Martin refers to the hamster wheel tasks as “the nonsense in the organization that is really paralyzing over the long run.”

A Lack of Connection

Another critical factor making it difficult for everyone to find purpose and therefore be engaged in their work and culture—and not just in younger generations—is the lack of connection. Martin thinks that some of the organic sources of culture have been taken away by remote work and hybrid models. For example, people would engage and form connections in the canteen or at the water cooler, but those relationships are now much harder to achieve.

In-person meetings also make it easier to read the room. Face-to-face body language and eye contact allow peopl