---
url: https://www.fox5ny.com/news/new-york-pilot-program-four-day-work
title: Four-day workweeks considered in New York State Assembly | FOX 5 New York
domain: fox5ny.com
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:14:32.786916
word_count: 330
paywall: True
cleaned_at: 2026-03-01T14:18:21.063948
cleaned_by: llm
quality_score: 8
---

url: https://www.fox5ny.com/news/new-york-pilot-program-four-day-work
title: Four-day workweeks considered in New York State Assembly | FOX 5 New York
domain: fox5ny.com
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:14:32.786916
word_count: 330
paywall: True
---

# Four-day workweeks considered in New York State Assembly | FOX 5 New York






---

article

FILE-Workers sit at their desks working on desktop computers. (Photo by Helen H. Richardson/MediaNews Group/The Denver Post via Getty Images)

The Brief

Two bills introducing four-day workweek pilot programs in New York are In Committee.

The bills were introduced by Assemblymember Phara Souffrant Forrest.

If passed, New York would be one step closer to a 32-hour workweek.

NEW YORK

-

New York is considering two pilot programs to test a four-day, 32-hour workweek.

Four-day workweek

What we know:

Assemblymember

Phara Souffrant Forrest

, representing the 57th Assembly District in Brooklyn, has introduced two pilot programs aimed at reducing the five-day workweek to four.

One pilot program would establish a four-day workweek for

state employees

, and the other will offer tax incentives to

private employers

to run the pilot.

Both bills –

Assembly Bill A5423

and

Assembly Bill A5454

, respectively – were introduced in February of this year; they are currently

In Committee

, a stage in the legislative process where bills are under consideration.

State employees

Bill A5423 would amend New York state's civil service law, requiring the state department of civil service to identify state agencies where a four-day workweek is "feasible and beneficial for at least 60 percent of state employees."

The bill also ensures that employees selected for the pilot program would not experience cuts in pay and benefits or have their hours cut to less than 36 hours per week.

Private employees


Data gathered by qualifying employers through surveys, interviews or other means would be used to study and evaluate the impact of workers transitioning to a four-day workweek.

The Source:

This article includes reporting from two bills currently in New York State Assembly Committee.

New York

video

video

video

video

video