---
url: https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2025/02/jobs-unemployment-big-freeze/681831/
title: The Job Market Is Frozen - The Atlantic
domain: theatlantic.com
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:16:10.877806
word_count: 1579
paywall: True
cleaned_at: 2026-03-01T14:19:08.767363
cleaned_by: llm
quality_score: 8
---

url: https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2025/02/jobs-unemployment-big-freeze/681831/
title: The Job Market Is Frozen - The Atlantic
domain: theatlantic.com
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:16:10.877806
word_count: 1579
paywall: True
---

# The Job Market Is Frozen - The Atlantic






---

Listen

−

1.0

x

+

Seek

0:00

9:57


Sign up here

.

S

ix months


Only they didn’t. More weeks and months went by, and the responses from employers became even sparser. I began to wonder whether my brother had written his resume in Comic Sans or was wearing a fedora to interviews. And then I started to hear similar stories from friends, neighbors, and former colleagues. I discovered entire Subreddits and TikTok hashtags and news articles full of job-market tales almost identical to my brother’s. “It feels like I am screaming into the void with each application I am filling out,” one recent graduate

told

the

New York Times

columnist Peter Coy last May.


The answer is that two seemingly incompatible things are happening in the job market at the same time. Even as the unemployment rate has hovered around 4 percent for more than three years, the pace of

hiring

has

slowed

to levels last seen shortly after the Great Recession, when the unemployment rate was nearly twice as high. The percentage of workers voluntarily quitting their jobs to find new ones, a signal of worker power and confidence, has

fallen


never

happened,” Guy Berger, the director of economic research at the Burning Glass Institute, told me. “But I’ve certainly never seen anything like it in my career as an economist.” Call it the Big Freeze.

Jonathan Chait: The real goal of the Trump economy


T

he period from the spring of 2021 through early 2023

, when employees

were



Once it became clear that a recession had been avoided, a new source of uncertainty emerged: politics. Recognizing that the outcome of the 2024 presidential election could result in two radically different policy environments, many companies decided to keep hiring plans on hold until after November. “The most common thing I hear from employers is ‘We can’t move forward if we don’t know where the world is going to be in six months,’” Kyle M. K., a talent-strategy adviser at Indeed, told me. “Surviv