---
url: https://theintercept.com/2026/03/02/iran-war-democratic-primaries-trump/
title: Trump’s Iran War Becomes Democratic Primary Issue
domain: theintercept.com
category: investigative
source: rss
date_scanned: 2026-03-08T08:03:26.688040
word_count: 1921
paywall: False
---

# Trump’s Iran War Becomes Democratic Primary Issue

**URL:** https://theintercept.com/2026/03/02/iran-war-democratic-primaries-trump/

**Domain:** theintercept.com

**Category:** investigative

**Source:** RSS Feed

**Scanned:** 2026-03-08T08:03:26.688040

**Word Count:** 1921

---

Democratic Party leaders Rep. Hakeem Jeffries and Sen. Chuck Schumer during a news conference at the Capitol in Washington on Feb. 4, 2026.

Photo: Graeme Sloan/Bloomberg via Getty Images

If Democratic voters

wanted party leaders to give a strong, unanimous condemnation of President Donald Trump’s war on Iran, they would probably be disappointed. Leaders of the liberal party have instead sought to criticize the process leading up to Trump’s multiday onslaught, rather than the onslaught itself.

Soon enough, however, primary elections will give voters their say on that approach.

Starting Tuesday, a series of primaries will serve as referenda on candidates who have either given ambivalent responses to the war or who have drawn past support from the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the pro-Israel lobbying flagship that

backed Trump’s strikes.

The first big test will come in North Carolina, where Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee-backed incumbent Rep. Valerie Foushee is under attack from challenger Nida Allam over prior ties to AIPAC.

Allam, a Durham County commissioner

hoping to topple Foushee

in the 4th Congressional District, chose to make the U.S. strikes on Iran the subject of her final pitch to voters in a

video ad

where she condemned the war.

“I have opposed these forever wars my entire career.”

“I will never take a dime from defense contractors or the pro-Israel lobby,” Allam said. “I have opposed these forever wars my entire career, and I hope to earn your vote to be your proudly uncompromised pro-peace leader in Washington.”

Taking heat from Allam, Foushee says she also opposes the war.

“I will go on record right now: I do not support Trump’s illegal war with Iran and will do everything I can in Congress to support War Powers Resolutions to stop it,” Foushee

said

on social media Saturday morning, hours after the bombs began dropping.

A super PAC affiliated with AIPAC gave Foushee crucial support during her 2022 race. With the

lobbying group’s brand

becoming

increasingly toxic

within the Democratic Party, she has

sworn off support

from the organization this time around — but a group tied to an AIPAC donor has nonetheless flooded the race

with ads on her behalf.

The North Carolina candidates’ stances reflect the overwhelming sentiment of Democratic voters, according to a pair of polls conducted over the weekend. Only 27 percent of Americans and 7 percent of Democrats approve of the attacks, according to a

Reuters/Ipsos poll

that lined up with the results of a Washington Post

survey.

Most Read

Congress Is Considering Abolishing Your Right to Be Anonymous Online

Taylor Lorenz

Trump’s Orwellian Board of Peace Consists Entirely of Human Rights Abusers

Nick Turse

Tennessee Wants to Let Schools Ban Immigrant Kids, Threatening to “End Public Education as We Know It”

Jessica Washington

Avoiding the Underlying Issue

Democratic leaders in Congress have taken a different tack. Before the strikes, they

dragged their feet

on forcing a vote on a war powers resolution meant to block launching strikes without congressional approval.

Related

Democrats Finally Get Around to Forcing Iran War Powers Vote

After the attack, many top Democrats criticized Trump’s decision to launch the war without congressional approval, while being vague on the substantive question of whether it was right to go to war.

House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries, D-N.Y., for instance, tied the attacks to the Democratic campaign theme of affordability and

blasted Trump for failing to ask Congress for approval.

Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., has also stopped short of directly criticizing the idea of attacking Iran. In his

statement

, he invoked the threat of Iran attaining nuclear weapons, cited the public’s fear of “another endless and costly war,” and called on Congress to pass a war powers resolution.

Those positions allow Democratic leaders to focus their criticism on Trump’s violation of the U.S. Constitution, which grants Congress the sole power to declare war, rather than the underlying issue of

whether the war is warranted

.

Democrats should be doing more than merely criticizing the process leading up to the war, said Hannah Morris, the vice president of government affairs for J Street, a liberal pro-Israel group that is lobbying members of Congress to support a war powers resolution that blocks Trump from launching further attacks without congressional approval.

“This is not just about process, this is about a reckless war by choice.”

“Process plus. This is not just about process, this is about a reckless war by choice, and it completely flies in the face of what President Trump ran on,” Morris told the Intercept.

One congressional candidate was blunt in her critique of the response from Democratic leaders.

“As we plunge headlong into another catastrophic war, Sen. Schumer and Rep. Jeffries’ throat clearing and process critique only serves Trump and the war machine. Democrats should speak clearly and with one voice: no war,” said Claire Valdez, a state assembly member who is running in New York’s 7th Congressional District with the

blessing of New York City Mayor Zohran Mamdani

.

Only a few Democratic members of Congress have given their outright support to the war — most notably

Sen. John Fetterman

, D-Pa.

We’re independent of corporate interests — and powered by members. Join us.

Become a member

Join Our Newsletter

Thank You For Joining!

Original reporting. Fearless journalism. Delivered to you.

Will you take the next step to support our independent journalism by becoming a member of The Intercept?

I'm in

Become a member

By signing up, I agree to receive emails from The Intercept and to the

Privacy Policy

and

Terms of Use

.

Join Our Newsletter

Original reporting. Fearless journalism. Delivered to you.

I'm in

Even in congressional races where none of the candidates have given the war their blessing, however, there have important distinctions in whether they focus Trump’s wrecking ball approach to the Constitution or the wisdom of the war itself.

In Illinois, a Democratic primary election in the 9th Congressional District on March 17 will give voters a test on whether they want candidates more forthrightly opposed to the conflict.

State Sen. Laura Fine, a top candidate in that race

who has drawn the backing of AIPAC donors

, supported Israel’s attacks on Iranian nuclear facilities

last year

. She was one of the candidates centering Trump in her response to the attack over the weekend.

“Donald Trump is leading us into another military conflict to distract from his own failures that puts American lives at risk and threatens to send the Middle East into further chaos,” she said. “He simply cannot be trusted and must be impeached.”

Two candidates vying for the progressive vote, Daniel Biss and

Kat Abughazaleh

, have both come out against the war. Biss

called

it “reckless and illegal.” Abughazaleh, a social media influencer, also called out Democrats who were willing to go along with the attacks in a video post.

Related

Trump’s Iran Attack Was Illegal, Former U.S. Military Officials Allege

“The problem is that many lawmakers on both sides of the aisle love playing into the idea of Iran as a boogeyman, and so they’re willing to bomb them to hell. Especially if it lines their pockets or gets them more donors from the military–industrial complex,”

she said

.

In Maine, firebrand oyster fisher Graham Platner was far ahead of popular two-term Gov. Janet Mills in a recent

primary poll.

Platner, a Marine combat veteran, called an emergency protest over the weekend and called the war “tragic, stupid, ill-conceived.”

In her statement, Mills criticized Trump’s “unilateral” decision to go to war while adding that Iran could not be allowed to develop a nuclear weapon.

“The American people have had enough of forever wars,” Mills said, “that put the lives of American servicemembers and civilians in danger, that do not protect the American people, that hurt our alliances and escalate global tensions.”

Share

Copy link

Share on Facebook

Share on Bluesky

Share on X

Share on LinkedIn

Share on WhatsApp

IT’S EVEN WORSE THAN WE THOUGHT.

What we’re seeing right now from Donald Trump is a full-on authoritarian takeover of the U.S. government.

This is not hyperbole.

Court orders are being ignored. MAGA loyalists have been put in charge of the military and federal law enforcement agencies. The Department of Government Efficiency has stripped Congress of its power of the purse. News outlets that challenge Trump have been banished or put under investigation.

Yet far too many are still covering Trump’s assault on democracy like politics as usual, with flattering headlines describing Trump as “unconventional,” “testing the boundaries,” and “aggressively flexing power.”

The Intercept has long covered authoritarian governments, billionaire oligarchs, and backsliding democracies around the world. We understand the challenge we face in Trump and the vital importance of press freedom in defending democracy.

We’re independent of corporate interests. Will you help us?

$15

$25

$50

$100

$5

$8

$10

$15

One Time

Monthly

Donate

IT’S BEEN A DEVASTATING

year for journalism — the worst in modern U.S. history.

We have a president with utter contempt for truth aggressively using the government’s full powers to dismantle the free press. Corporate news outlets have cowered, becoming accessories in Trump’s project to create a post-truth America. Right-wing billionaires have pounced, buying up media organizations and rebuilding the information environment to their liking.

In this most perilous moment for democracy, The Intercept is fighting back. But to do so effectively, we need to grow.

That’s where you come in. Will you help us expand our reporting capacity in time to hit the ground running in 2026?

We’re independent of corporate interests. Will you help us?

$15

$25

$50

$100

$5

$8

$10

$15

One Time

Monthly

Donate

I’M BEN MUESSIG,

The Intercept’s editor-in-chief. It’s been a devastating year for journalism — the worst in modern U.S. history.

We have a president with utter contempt for truth aggressively using the government’s full powers to dismantle the free press. Corporate news outlets have cowered, becoming accessories in Trump’s project to create a post-truth America. Right-wing billionaires have pounced, buying up media organizations and rebuilding the information environment to their liking.

In this most perilous moment for democracy, The Intercept is fighting back. But to do so effectively, we need to grow.

That’s where you come in. Will you help us expand our reporting capacity in time to hit the ground running in 2026?

We’re independent of corporate interests. Will you help us?

$15

$25

$50

$100

$5

$8

$10

$15

One Time

Monthly

Donate

Contact the author:

Matt Sledge

sledge@theintercept.com

@sledge.41

on Signal

Related

The Regime Change President Who Won’t (or Can’t) Actually Change Any Regimes

Trump’s Orwellian Board of Peace Consists Entirely of Human Rights Abusers

Fool Me Twice: The Case for War With Iran Is Even Thinner Than It Was for Iraq

Israel Is Cynically Capitalizing on the Iranian Protests for Its Own Ends

Latest Stories

Voices

ICE Poses a Real Threat to Our Elections

Domenic Powell

-

Mar. 6

DHS has built a national police force with massive surveillance capabilities — which it could use to interfere with our elections.

The Intercept Briefing

Trump’s War to Nowhere

The Intercept Briefing

-

Mar. 6

Intercept senior editor Ali Gharib discusses the human and political toll of the Israel–U.S. war on Iran with Séamus Malekafzali.

Targeting Iran

Sources Briefed on Iran War Say U.S. Has No Plans for What Comes Next

Nick Turse

-

Mar. 5

“The administration doesn’t have a clue. They do not have an actual, real rationale, endgame, or plan for the aftermath of this.”

Join The Conversation
