---
url: https://www.forbes.com/sites/digital-assets/2024/08/31/get-ready-coinbase-ceo-reveals-mind-blowing-ai-update-that-could-be-a-bitcoin-and-crypto-price-game-changer/
title: ‘Get Ready’—Coinbase CEO Reveals Mind-Blowing AI Update That Could Be A Bitcoin And Crypto Price Game-Changer
domain: forbes.com
category: aigen
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T10:00:24.120050
word_count: 697
paywall: True
cleaned_at: 2026-03-01T14:18:39.512869
cleaned_by: llm
quality_score: 8
---

url: https://www.forbes.com/sites/digital-assets/2024/08/31/get-ready-coinbase-ceo-reveals-mind-blowing-ai-update-that-could-be-a-bitcoin-and-crypto-price-game-changer/
title: ‘Get Ready’—Coinbase CEO Reveals Mind-Blowing AI Update That Could Be A Bitcoin And Crypto Price Game-Changer
domain: forbes.com
category: aigen
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T10:00:24.120050
word_count: 697
paywall: True
---

# ‘Get Ready’—Coinbase CEO Reveals Mind-Blowing AI Update That Could Be A Bitcoin And Crypto Price Game-Changer






---

Forbes Digital Assets

‘Get Ready’—Coinbase CEO Reveals Mind-Blowing AI Update That Could Be A Bitcoin And Crypto Price Game-Changer

By

Billy Bambrough

,

Senior Contributor.

Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights.


Follow Author

Aug 31, 2024, 07:45am EDT

Sep 02, 2024, 07:13am EDT

Bitcoin

Bitcoin

and crypto have struggle to hold onto the momentum that saw the bitcoin price surge through the first half of the year (


).

Subscribe now to

Forbes' CryptoAsset & Blockchain Advisor

and "uncover blockchain blockbusters poised for 1,000% plus gains" in the aftermath of bitcoin's halving earthquake!

The bitcoin price has dropped to around $60,000 per bitcoin from an all-time high of over $70,000 in March—

with one smaller bitcoin rival suffering a price crash over the last week

.

Now,

as more details of Donald Trump's mystery crypto project trickle out

, the chief executive of major bitcoin and crypto exchange Coinbase has issued an artificial intelligence (AI) prediction that could be a crypto market game-changer.

Sign up now for the free

CryptoCodex

—

A daily five-minute newsletter for traders, investors and the crypto-curious that will get you up to date and keep you ahead of the bitcoin and crypto market bull run

Forbes

Fed Warning: Bitcoin And Crypto On The ‘Cusp’ Of A Major Price Shock

By

MORE FROM

FORBES ADVISOR

Best High-Yield Savings Accounts Of 2024

By

Kevin Payne

Contributor

Best 5% Interest Savings Accounts of 2024

By

Cassidy Horton

Contributor

Coinbase chief executive Brian Armstrong has predicted artificial intelligence could be a game-changer for the bitcoin and crypto economy—potentially triggering a bitcoin price boom.

© 2023 Bloomberg Finance LP

"This week at Coinbase we witnessed our first AI to AI crypto transaction," Coinbase's Brian Armstrong

posted

to X.

"What did one AI buy from another? Tokens! Not crypto tokens, but AI tokens (words basically from one LLM to another). They used tokens to buy tokens," Armstrong said, referring to the large language models (LLMs) such as OpenAI’s ChatGPT, alongside a "mind-blown" emoji.

The AI boom through this year and 2023 has fueled an explosion in technology stocks

and helped support the bitcoin and crypto market as traders bet AI will open up new revenue opportunities and cost savings.

"AI agents cannot get bank accounts, but they can get crypto wallets," Armstrong said. "They can now use USDC

USDC

on Base to transact with humans, merchants, or other AIs. Those transactions are instant, global, and free. This is an important step to AIs getting useful work done."

Some have questioned whether the AI investment hype will translate into tangible use cases, with critics arguing the technology is not yet ready for mass adoption.

According to Armstrong, one of the limitations of existing AI programs is their inability to transact online—something he claims could be done with crypto—and called on developers to try integrating a crypto wallet to their programs.

Sign up now for

CryptoCodex

—A free, daily newsletter for the crypto-curious

Forbes

‘Exciting Updates’—New Details Of Donald Trump’s Mystery Crypto Project Spark Wild Bitcoin Rival Speculation

By

The bitcoin price has surged over the last year but has recently lost momentum, with the bitcoin price falling back from its peak of over $70,000 per bitcoin.

Forbes Digital Assets

"And if you are a company that sells a service—get ready for your shopping cart to be AI checkout enabled," Armstrong said. "It turns out everyone benefits from having access to good financial services, including AIs! How big will the AI to AI economy be a few years from now," Armstrong asked.

The bitcoin and crypto market remains closely correlated to the stock market and specifically to high-risk tech stocks that have rocketed this year thanks to hype around AI.

Coinbase, the largest U.S. bitcoin and crypto exchange in the U.S. by volume, has seen its share price swing wildly along with the bitcoin price and the wider crypto market since its Nasdaq debut in 2021 at the height of the bitcoin price bull run.

Editorial Standards

Reprints & Permissions

LOADING VIDEO PLAYER...

FORBES’ FEATURED Video