---
url: https://www.npr.org/sections/money/2021/07/13/1015286147/why-remote-work-might-not-revolutionize-where-we-work?ft=nprml&f=1006
title: Why Remote Work Might Not Revolutionize Where We Work : Planet Money : NPR
domain: npr.org
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:52:14.266379
word_count: 1696
paywall: True
cleaned_at: 2026-03-01T14:19:09.800294
cleaned_by: llm
quality_score: 8
---

url: https://www.npr.org/sections/money/2021/07/13/1015286147/why-remote-work-might-not-revolutionize-where-we-work?ft=nprml&f=1006
title: Why Remote Work Might Not Revolutionize Where We Work : Planet Money : NPR
domain: npr.org
category: newwork
date_scanned: 2026-03-01T09:52:14.266379
word_count: 1696
paywall: True
---

# Why Remote Work Might Not Revolutionize Where We Work : Planet Money : NPR






---

NPR

Planet Money Newsletter

LISTEN & FOLLOW

NPR App

Apple Podcasts

Spotify

Amazon Music

iHeart Radio

YouTube Music

RSS link

Planet Money Newsletter

Why Remote Work Might Not Revolutionize Where We Work

July 13, 2021

6:30 AM ET

Greg Rosalsky

Enlarge this image


Justin Sullivan/Getty Images

hide caption

toggle caption

Justin Sullivan/Getty Images


Justin Sullivan/Getty Images


$5 billion


Apple is now "decentralizing" operations away from its expensive doughnut. The primary reason for the change,

according to Bloomberg

, is that housing in the Bay Area has gotten so excruciatingly expensive that even high-paid Apple employees are struggling to live there. Apple executives believe continued insistence that employees work in the doughnut will hurt employee retention and recruitment. So they're expanding satellite offices in places outside the Bay Area. This will save the company money because they can pay lower salaries in places with a lower cost of living. Starting September, the company will also adopt

a hybrid model


most Apple employees

would prefer even more flexibility).

Sponsor Message

Apple isn't the only tech company freeing large numbers of workers from the shackles of the bonkers Bay Area housing market. Salesforce — which itself

recently finished

construction of a big, expensive building in San Francisco —

has adopted

a similar hybrid policy.

Facebook

and

Twitter

say their employees can be permanently remote if they choose to. Shopify. Slack. Square. Coinbase. The list goes on and on.

With so many Silicon Valley companies saying employees no longer have to work in Silicon Valley offices, are we witnessing the remaking of America's economic map? A leading expert on economic geography doesn't think so.

The gravitational forces of our economic map


The New Geography of Jobs

, which became a must-read in wonk circles. Even President Barack Obama

recommended it

.

The book's core thesis has become conventional wisdom: American economic prosperity was becoming increasingly concentrated in a small number of places filled with brainiacs. These places not only created jobs for tech and finance types, but they also created jobs for bartenders, waiters, chefs, lawyers, yoga instructors, dog groomers, and any other provider of services that the brainiacs wanted to spend their money on. The job opportunities and amenities of these places became like a gravitational vortex for more brainiacs and providers of things that brainiacs love, which made the vortex only get stronger. Meanwhile, places without brainiacs were getting left behind. Moretti called it "The Great Divergence."

Sponsor Message

[Editor's note: This is an excerpt of

Planet Money

's newsletter. You can

sign up here

]

Now, with remote work and satellite offices freeing many brainiacs from working in those places — some of which have failed to build enough housing to support all the people getting sucked in by their vortex — the question is whether we're on the verge of a Great Convergence.

Internet pioneer and venture capitalist Marc Andreessen seems to believe so. He

recently declared

that we are witnessing "a permanent civilizational shift." It's a new era where we can divorce "physical location from economic opportunity" and spread the bounty of good jobs to a wider swath of the nation.

Andreessen is brilliant, and t